---
layout: post
title: "MongoDB"
date: 2023-12-02 12:00:00 -0000
categories: [blog]
---

12/02/2023

Well my goal today was to set up a MongoDB database. Well, I did, and it took less than five minutes. One thirty-minute crash course later and I'm pretty confident I know what I need to know to at least get this first user story accomplished. I really expected this to be quite a bit more difficult based on my experience with setting up SQL databases. 

I suppose I should take a moment to explain how I'll be using my database. If you know a bit about databases feel free to skip this bit, it's pretty elementary. For now at least we're keeping it simple; One table, "tasks". Four fields, "id","name","parent","completed". If you don't know much about databases, all you need to know for now is that a table is like a list of Things and fields contain information about the Things. This is what the table looks like right now.

    local> db.tasks.find()
    [
    { _id: ObjectId('656bcb3e4b667dba9e030aa0'), name: 'test' },
    {
        _id: ObjectId('656bcd302173f121c313347c'),
        name: 'Complete first user story',
        completed: false
    },
    {
        _id: ObjectId('656bd0c32173f121c313347d'),
        name: 'Set up MongoDB',
        parent: '656bcd302173f121c313347c',
        completed: true
    },
    {
        _id: ObjectId('656bd0c32173f121c313347e'),
        name: 'Install Node and Express',
        parent: '656bcd302173f121c313347c',
        completed: false
    }
    ]

This is how my task tree will be stored in a database. You have top level tasks, in this case "Complete first user story", which you may notice has no parent. Others, which do have a parent, are a sub-task of another task, sometimes called a child-class. Our app will know what subtasks belong where because their "parent" id is equal to the _id field of another task in the table. This will make searching for a parent task's children easy, and vice-versa.

That's really all I have to do right now so I'm just going to leave my database alone for now. Tomorrow I'll set up the back-end with node.js and express.js.